Data augmentation can be
a very efficient way
to get more data,
especially for
unstructured data problems
such as images,
audio, maybe text.
But when carrying out
data augmentation,
there're a lot of choices
you have to make.
What are the parameters?
How do you design the
data augmentation setup?
Let's dive into this to look
at some best practices.
Take speech recognition.
Given an audio clip like this,
''AI is the new electricity''.
If you take background cafe
noise that sounds like this
[NOISE] and add these two
audio clips together.
Literally, take the two
waveforms and sum them up,
then you can create
a synthetic example
that sounds like this,
''AI is the new electricity''.
Sounds like someone saying,
AI is the new electricity
in a noisy cafe.
This is one form of
data augmentation that
lets you efficiently
create a lot of
data that sounds like data
collected in the cafe.
Or if you take the
same audio clip,
''AI is the new electricity'',
and add it to background
music [MUSIC],
that it sounds like
someone saying it
with maybe the radio
on in the background.
''AI Is the new electricity''.
Now when carrying out
data augmentation,
there're a few decisions
you need to make such
as what is the type of
background noise and how loud
should the background noise
be relative to the speech.
Let's take a look at some ways of
making these decisions
systematically.
The goal of data augmentation,
is to create examples
that your learning
algorithm can learn from.
As a framework for doing that,
I encourage you to think
of how you can create
realistic examples that the
algorithm does poorly on,
because if the algorithm already
does well in those examples,
then there's less for
it to learn from.
But you want the
examples to still
be ones that a human or
maybe some other baseline can do
well on, because otherwise,
one way to generate
examples that the
algorithm does poorly on,
would be to just create
examples that are so
noisy that no one can
hear what anyone said,
but that's not helpful.
You want examples that
are hard enough to
challenge the algorithm,
but not so hard that they're
impossible for any human or
any algorithm to ever do well on.
That's why when I'm
generating new examples
using data augmentation,
I try to generate
examples that meets
both of these criteria.
Now, one way that some people do
data augmentation is to
generate an augmented data set,
and then train the
learning algorithm and
see if the algorithm does
better on the data set.
Then fiddle around with
the parameters for
data augmentation and change
the learning algorithm
again and so on.
This turns out to be quite
inefficient because every
time you change your data
augmentation parameters,
you need to train
your new network or change
your learning algorithm
all over and this can
take a long time.
Instead, I found that
using these principles,
allows you to sanity check that
your new data generated
using data augmentation is
useful without actually having to
spend maybe hours or
sometimes days of
training or learning
algorithm on that data to
verify that it will
result in the
performance improvement.
Specifically, here's a
checklist you might go
through when you are
generating new data.
One, doesn't sound realistic.
You want your audio to
actually sound like
realistic audio of the sort
that you want your
algorithm to perform on.
Two, is the X to Y mapping clear?
In other words, can humans
still recognize what was said?
This is to verify point two here.
Three, is the algorithm
currently doing poorly
on this new data.
That helps you verify point one.
If you can generate data
that meets all of these criteria,
then that would give you
a higher chance that when you put
this data into your training
set and retrain the algorithm,
then that will result
in you successfully
pulling up part of
this rubber sheet.
Let's look at one more example,
using images this time.
Let's say that you
have a very small set
of images of smartphones
with scratches.
Here's how you may be able
to use data augmentation.
You can take the image
and flip it horizontally.
This results in a
pretty realistic image.
The phone buttons are
now on the other side,
but this could be
a useful example
to add to your training set.
Or you could implement
contrast changes
or actually brighten up the image
here so the scratch is a
little bit more visible.
Or you could try
darkening the image,
but in this example,
the image is now so
dark that even I as
a person can't really tell
if there's a scratch
there or not.
Whereas these two
examples on top would
pass the checklist
we had earlier,
that the human can still
detect the scratch well,
this example is too dark,
it would fail that checklists.
I would try to choose
the data augmentation scheme
that generates more examples
that look like the
ones on top and fill
the ones that look like the
ones here at the bottom.
In fact, going off
the principle that we
want images that look realistic,
that humans can do well on
and hopefully the
algorithm does poorly on,
you can also use
more sophisticated
techniques such
as take a picture of a phone with
no scratches and use Photoshop in
order to artificially
draw a scratch.
This technique, literally
using Photoshop,
can also be an effective way
to generate more examples,
because this example
of a scratch here,
you may or may not be able
to see it depending on
the video compression and image
contrast where you're
watching this video,
but with a scratch here,
this looks like a pretty
realistic scratch
that's actually generated
with Photoshop.
I as a person can
recognize the scratch
and so if the learning algorithm
isn't detecting this right now,
this would be a great
example to add.
I've also used more advanced
techniques like GANs,
Generative Adversarial
Networks to
synthesize scratches like
these automatically,
although I found that techniques
like that can also be overkill,
meaning that there're simpler
techniques that are much
faster to implement that work
just fine without
the complexity of
building again to
synthesize scratches.
You may have heard of the
term model iteration,
which refers to iteratively
training a model using
error analysis and then trying to
decide how to improve the model.
Taking a data-centric
approach AI developments,
sometimes it's useful
to instead use
a data iteration loop where you
repeatedly take the
data and the model,
train your learning
algorithm, do error analysis,
and as you go through this loop,
focus on how to add
data or improve the
quality of the data.
For many practical applications,
taking this data
iteration loop approach,
with a robust [inaudible]
search, that's important too.
Taking of data iteration
loop approach,
results in faster improvements
to your learning
algorithm performance,
depending on your problem.
When you're working on an
unstructured data problem,
data augmentation, if you can
create new data that
seems realistic,
that humans can do quite well on,
but the algorithm struggles on,
that can be an efficient way to
improve your learning
algorithm performance.
If you fall through
error analysis,
that you're learning
algorithm does
poorly on speech with cafe noise,
data augmentation to
generate more data with
cafe noise could be
an efficient way to
improve your learning
algorithm performance.
Now, when you add
data to your system,
the question I've
often been asked is,
can adding data hurt your
learning algorithm performance?
Usually, for
unstructured data performance,
the answer is no,
with some caveats, but let's dive
more deeply into this
in the next video.